.Dd 28/3/25               \" DATE
.Dt btrfs-snaptime      \" Program name and manual section number
.Os Linux
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm btrfs-snaptime
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd A backup utility that utilizes btrfs snapshots
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nn btrfs-snaptime
.Op Fl hdrcwL              \" [-abcd]
.Op Fl p /:/home         \" [-a path]
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
is a btrfs (filesystem) helper utility utility designed to be used either 
as a standlone or as a timed cronjob that generates filesystem snapshots.
It is designed to make the snapshots read-only to prevent accidental
deletion or modification.  The utility can also leave a 
.Ar trail
of snapshots, a couple days, weeks, or months behind the current snapshot,
and you can specify how many snapshots to leave in trail.
A list of flags and their descriptions:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed
.It Fl h
The standard help message.
.It Fl a
Backup will be run on all btrfs compatible partitions.  Not compatible with the -p option!
.It Fl p
Partitions to snapshot, seperated by colons. Mandatory.  Not compatible with the -a option!
.It Fl d
Max number of snapshots to leave in trail, total. Default: 6
.It Fl r
If there is a previous snapshot taken on the same day, should we remove it and resnap?
Default: off.
.It Fl c
Immediately commit deletions. Default: off.
.It Fl w
Mark read-only. Default: off.
.It Fl L
Snapshot locations (relative to btrfs mountpoint). Default:  /.snapshots/
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
.Sh FILES \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Pa /usr/local/bin/btrfs-snaptime
btrfs-snaptime The script. Should be set executable.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr btrfs 1 ,
.Xr crontab 1 .
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner
